# LSU AIRPnP WATIV Brainstorm

_Audio Information Retrieval Plug-N-Play_

A repository of tools for quickly implementing MIR and AIR processes for feature extraction and creating musical outcomes.  If the project develops enough, it may be refined into a more robust framework. For now, it is highly experimental.

From the [Experimental Music & Digital Media program at LSU](https://emdm.lsu.edu)


### Philosophy

"Why do people see faces in nature, interpret window stains as human figures, hear voices in random sounds generated by electronic devices or find conspiracies in the daily news? A proximate cause is the priming effect, in which our brain and senses are prepared to interpret stimuli according to an expected model. UFOlogists see a face on Mars. Religionists see the Virgin Mary on the side of a building. Paranormalists hear dead people speaking to them through a radio receiver. Conspiracy theorists think 9/11 was an inside job by the Bush administration. Is there a deeper ultimate cause for why people believe such weird things? There is. I call it “patternicity,” or the tendency to find meaningful patterns in meaningless noise."
 
 Michael Shermer [Scientific_American](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/patternicity-finding-meaningful-patterns/)


Apophenia and Music...


#### Ideas

1. Use￼ audio feature extraction to generate standard notation and or graphic notation for musical comprehension and or performance￼ that can be implemented as a third party plug in accessable in many audio programs.
2. This includes the ability to route midi and or frequency information to digital instruments.
3. The frequency information can be rounded into mod 12 pitch classes or as exact frequency rounded into just intonation or interpreted as scalable microtonal subdivisions￼ as desired.
4. Goal number one: create a max patch that can take data provided from onset detection in chroma to produce standard notation￼
5. Extract: frequency, chroma, onset, distinct independent voices, amplitude, timbre...
6. How does this differ from spectral music?
